Previously on "Designated Survivor”...
Have you made a decision
about a lawyer for your mother?
-You know my recommendation.
-Kendra Daynes.
Present company excluded,
she's the best lawyer I know.
[Alex] My mother's subpoena
is prosecutorial bad faith.
And this attempt to tie her
into Eric Little's recent death...
| mean, it's ridiculous.
[Emily] Charlotte Thorn was
the British rep.
-They were touting her as a future P.M.
-[gunshot]
[Damian] Ms. Lane, you were her aide.
Is there anyone in particular
she crossed swords with?
Darius Cray.
A British importer-exporter.
Well, that's a cover for arms dealing.
We need to ask you a few
questions about Charlotte Thorn, Mr. Cray.
| never met Charlotte Thorn.
-[gunshot]
-[man grunts]
[Hannah] It's Darius Cray.
[Chuck] There was activity in one
of Cray's accounts after he was shot.
A transfer of 100 million euros.
And the only person with access
to that account was Catherine, his wife.
You saying we've been
chasing the wrong Cray?
Yeah, Catherine's been calling the shots.
He was just a front.
| know you've had my back.
-Thanks.
-You, too.
I'm kind of picky about who I work with.
[thunder rumbling,
waves crashing]
[radio chatter]
Latest from NWS, sir.
We're in the soup a few more hours.
Lemmy, what's our range?
Minimal. Radar's gonna be spotty
until we clear the electrical storm.
All right, I'll see about upping
our low-vis detail. Chris?
[explosion]
-[hull creaks]
-[alarm blares]
[indistinct shouting]
[alarm blares]
[Aaron] The U.S.S. Verona,
an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer,
collided with a sanitation barge
off the coast of Kunami.
What was one of our warships
doing in enemy waters?
It was en route to Bahrain for
joint military exercises with the CMF.
A storm disabled
its radar and nav systems.
She drifted off course.
So, let me get this straight.
A $6 billion warship's response
to inclement weather
is to run into a floating garbage truck?
You know what I think?
Yeah. That for $6 billion,
the thing should be able to levitate.
Damn right.
[woman] Attention!
Anything from the Kunami Ambassador?
[Emily] He put out a statement accusing us
of a hostile incursion
into their territorial waters.
For what, running into
a hundred-thousand tons of their trash?
He says that was divine providence.
He's consulting with the emir.
-Casualties?
-[Chernow] 16 dead. Dozens injured, sir.
Well, the Verona's incapacitated.
We'll have to tow her out.
But we will need Kunami's cooperation.
Well, we may need a show of force
to get that.
We're talking about a renegade regime
that's been under military and economic
sanctions for over a decade.
Where's our closest fleet?
[Chernow] Well, the best case,
the Fifth is eight hours out.
Kunami, we can handle,
but they're not the only problem, sir.
Right. Other hostile nations
in the Middle East are watching.
Son of a bitch.
This can go global quickly.
The problem is, the Verona
is loaded with technology
we have to keep
out of Kunami's hands.
First and foremost,
we've got 300 Americans
stranded in hostile waters, many of them
injured. We need to bring them home.
Admiral, deploy the Fifth. I want to talk
to the captain of the Verona.
Well, there is no captain, sir.
The senior command
was meeting in his quarters,
and then swept out to sea
when the hull was breached.
My God.
Get me the senior officer in charge.
Tell the press pool that the President
regrets the loss of life,
and we're reaching out to Kunami to
secure the immediate rescue of her crew.
Okay. They're still gonna want to know
what a U.S. destroyer was doing
-in Kunami waters.
-Well, there's a phenomenon called rain,
sometimes accompanied by
an atmospheric disturbance called wind.
You really want me to feed that
to the hyenas?
No. Tell them that the President
regrets the loss of life.
-You said that.
-Well, the regret is profound.
-And we're reaching out to Kunami to se--
-You said that, too.
-My lack of sleep is profound.
-Try coffee.
-I don't drink coffee anymore.
-Start.
[woman] The President's online, sir.
Mr. President.
At ease, sailor.
What's your name?
Lieutenant Will Griffin, sir.
How's the ship doing?
The damage is pretty
significant, Mr. President.
-Can she move at all?
-No, sir. Negative.
Engines are down. Right now,
it's about waiting for help
and taking care of our wounded.
We lost a lot of good people, sir.
| know.
Lucky for us, we still have one in charge.
-Sir?
- I was reading your file.
Third in your class at Annapolis,
Navy Commendation Medals,
three Navy Achievement Medals,
and a NATO Medal.
-Impressive, Captain.
-It's Lieutenant, sir.
If I'm gonna ask you to lead
your crew out of there,
-you're gonna do it with the proper rank.
-Sir, I... I don't know.
...I only was commissioned three years
ago. Commanding a ship, I don't...
| wasn't ready
for my battlefield promotion either.
Circumstances make the man.
I'll let you in on a secret.
I'm a design nerd.
I know all about your vessel.
-You sail, sir?
-It's not the water that I love.
It's the ships. And yours is a beauty.
Double-spaced steel armor,
Kevlar spall liners,
displaces 8,300 tons.
Next generation's gonna be
made out of carbon nanotubes.
The future.
Led there by men like you.
Take care of your crew, Captain.
We're coming to get you.
Yes, sir.
Verona out.
| wish I could be of more help
with Kunami, Mr. President.
The sanctions you imposed
when you were President
make you persona non grata
in that kingdom.
So unfortunately, right now,
the best thing you can do for us
-is to sit this one out.
-Understood.
But if I can be of help
behind the scenes,
I'm here.
Thank you. I appreciate it.
Oh, and there is another area
where I think I might be of help.
The Thorn murder...
Our reputation's been taking
a beating abroad over it.
| know it, and rightfully so.
The Prime Minister's furious.
Well, I have deep ties with her.
Perhaps I could smooth things.
That would be great.
I'll have Aaron fold you
into the investigation.
-Thank you, Cornelius.
-Thank you, sir.
We've looked into Catherine Cray.
Every meeting her husband has had
in the last five years,
she's been in the same city.
Every account he has,
she's a co-signatory.
He's her flunky.
-Have you spoken to her?
-We've tried.
She's lawyered up and walled off
in her hotel suite
while Darius recovers and awaits a trial.
So I'm to tell the Prime Minister
that the chief suspect
in the murder of my boss -
one of her most trusted allies -
is thumbing her nose at U.S. justice.
We would prefer you tell her
that we're flushing her out.
How?
She's got over 100 million
stashed in U.S. accounts.
Secretary Moss is looking
to freeze her assets.
We're hoping she reaches out once
she realizes she can't write a check.
Please keep me posted.
[Damian] Of course, Ms. Lane.
-We gonna talk about this?
-Talk about what?
About, well, what happened between us...
Nothing happened between us.
Well, nothing that should make us feel
uncomfortable around each other.
-You know what makes me uncomfortable?
-What?
Talking about it.
-In exchange for what?
-Mr. Ambassador--
[scoffs] You want to violate
our sovereign waters again.
In exchange for what?
The thanks of our grateful nation.
-So, the sanctions, the resolutions--
-Are for a later discussion.
This is a humanitarian rescue mission.
Yes, I'm certain a U.S. destroyer
finds itself in our waters
for humanitarian reasons.
How it got there is irrelevant.
| will tell you what is relevant,
Mr. Shore.
We would not even be
having this conversation
if a Kunami warship were stranded
10 miles off the coast of New York City.
-Do you know why?
-Mr. Ambassador--
Because your navy would have sent it
to the bottom of the Atlantic.
I'm obligated to inform you,
a refusal to let us rescue our men
will be deemed a hostile act.
I'm obligated to inform you
that the emir is not prepared
to let a second U.S. ship
infringe upon the sanctity
of our territorial waters.
-Mr. President.
-Admiral, what's the update?
That's Kunami's fleet;
five ships and counting.
-Tell me about the formation.
-It's a classic blockade.
Our ships won't be able to get anywhere
near the Verona without running it.
-And risking a war.
-[Aaron] It doesn't make sense
-that the emirate would want to do that.
-What they want is to make us sweat.
Our ship is at the mercy of a regime
that is desperate to prove
its own legitimacy to its people.
And we have a crew
that expects us to rescue them,
when apparently
there's no easy way to do that.
Admiral, contact Captain Griffin.
We need to let him know
that we haven't abandoned him.
[theme music]
Radar's got their ships, sir,
three clicks off our starboard bow.
They're just saber-rattling, son.
They're not gonna fire on you.
Well, we can defend ourselves.
We got Tomahawks, harpoons...
What about food?
Uh, refrigeration's out, galley's flooded.
Mostly canned goods are left.
Unfortunately, I've had the displeasure
of eating military rations.
Do yourself a favor.
Toss the food. Eat the cans.
You really are a navy buff, sir.
I'm gonna need you to address your crew.
We're taking the diplomatic route.
It's gonna take some time.
I need you to assure them
they're gonna be eating
a hot meal on land soon enough.
Aye, aye, sir.
-Verona out.
-[exhales sharply]
Kunami's just officially
cut all diplomatic ties.
They're posturing, sir.
Time is on their side.
Because the casualties are on ours.
If they catch us blinking first,
they'll have us over a barrel.
Oh, no. I wouldn't count on them
blinking at all, sir.
-Why not?
-Because Kunami's an unstable regime.
If the emir lets an American fleet
tow the Verona out
while he sits on his hands,
he may as well send out
invitations to his own coup.
Then we're gonna have to find
a concession we can live with.
I'll have Secretary Moss ask Cairo
to open a back channel with the emir,
find out he really wants.
Mr. President,
Kendra Daynes needs to see you.
Okay. Go ahead. I'll catch up.
Kendra, come with me.
| had my off-the-record
with Director Foerstel today.
Did you ask him about the status of
the investigation into my mother-in-law?
Yes, sir. He stressed the importance
of an independent FBI,
then showed me the door.
Did he tell you it was inappropriate
to have a discussion
about an ongoing investigation?
No, sir. He refused
to address the subject.
Trust me, he addressed it. Now we know
it's an ongoing investigation.
Yes, sir, he's still digging,
even though we managed to quash
your mother-in-law's subpoena.
In all fairness, he doesn't really
have a choice.
Sir?
After the bombing, there was a vacancy
at the head of the FBI.
Foerstel was the obvious choice;
impeccable record, impeccable integrity.
So in order to be seen as impartial,
he has to pursue this.
To the ends of the Earth.
Sir, I may be able to help here
if you give me some latitude.
What do you need?
Unfettered access
to your mother-in-law.
Eva didn't sign up for any of this.
She won't handle it well.
-I'm not comfortable with that.
-I understand.
But the longer this drags on,
the more involved she's going to become.
[sighs]
You're right.
[phone beeps]
Can you patch me through
to Eva Booker, please?
Hey, Seth.
How'd your press conference go?
Um, Al-Jazeera asked me
what a U.S. destroyer
-was doing in Kunami waters.
-And what did you say?
| said, trying to get
its engines started.
[chuckles]
How very literal of you.
Oh, I dropped off the Charlotte Thorn
presser notes on your desk.
You dropped those off last night.
Really?
Oh. Well, now you have two copies.
-You want to tell me what's going on?
-[sighs]
'Cause I find the whole absent-minded
professor thing charming,
but the big guy won't.
[sighs]
I'm supposed to have lunch
with my dad.
Okay. You've never mentioned him.
That's because I haven't seen him in
23 years. Not since he walked out on us.
-Sorry. I didn't know.
-He got in touch a few weeks ago.
He's in town all week
for some convention,
and I've been putting him off.
-But he leaves tonight.
-So, what are you gonna do?
Well, part of me would like to see him
so I can plunge a knife into his heart.
Yeah, maybe not that.
But the other part thinks
that if I let him go,
then I'll be closing
a door on him forever.
-But the choice is out of my hands.
-Why?
Because 300 of our sailors
are trapped in enemy waters,
Charlotte Thorn's killer
is still on the loose,
and the world is, you know, on fire.
The world is always on fire.
Em, I would never tell you what to do,
but don't let this place be an excuse.
The flames will still be here
when you get back.
[sighs]
[Daniel] I moved to Key West
for a few years.
| had a limo business.
| figured, you know, people in paradise,
they would be too drunk to drive.
Turns out they were all just too drunk
to make a phone call.
| don't remember
you being this quiet, Emily.
Didn't want to interrupt you
while you were telling your life story.
It's missing one thing, though.
Me.
Emily, I am so sorry.
| don't need your apology.
My mother does.
-It's not what you think.
-Really?
Because I think you were too busy skiing
and getting a tan to be a dad.
| left because your mother and |
weren't in love.
So that's why I never heard from you;
because you didn't love my mother.
[-I-I'm not here to make excuses.
All I can tell you is that I knew
if your mother wasn't in my life,
then I couldn't be in yours.
You're right. That's...
that's not an excuse. That's worse.
-That is cowardly and pathetic.
-Emily...
Do you know what it's like
to be a little girl with a birthday?
And you run home from school
praying that this is the year
your dad sends you a card.
[voice breaking]
And you get home,
and you check the mail, and no.
It's not the year.
And there never was a year.
Emily, I wanted to reach out to you
a thousand times.
But I didn't know what to say.
[sighs]
How about goodbye?
| carried this around for 20 years,
about a little girl from Akron
who won a really big spelling bee.
| kept it because of the picture. But...
Well, now that
I've finally seen you again...
...I don't need it anymore.
[sighs]
Dad, wait.
[Oliver] You've charged my client's
husband with arms trafficking.
You've charged her with nothing.
So it's ironic she should wake up
and find her accounts blocked.
I'm glad we finally have her attention.
And now I have yours.
A motion to unfreeze my client's assets.
| filed it this morning in federal court.
A suit for malicious prosecution.
I'm gonna fill out the statement of facts
after this meeting.
Mrs. Cray hasn't been prosecuted yet.
No. She's just being harassed.
Ma'am, how 'bout you just
answer some questions,
and then you can save
on some legal fees.
How 'bout you and Mr. Bean here
stop wasting--
It's okay, Oliver.
We can end this nonsense now.
| had nothing to do
with my husband's business.
The fact of all your accounts being
joint ones tells a different story.
Yes, of my naivety.
| design pocketbooks.
My only mistake
was co-mingling our funds.
[Oliver] And that is not a crime.
No, just evidence of one.
It's a witch hunt by a government
looking to deflect attention from the fact
that it can't solve a high-profile murder.
A murder that
| had nothing to do with.
-I'm not a criminal, Agent Wells.
-Your husband is.
And the minute he stands trial,
he's going to realize that his best play
is to implicate you
in the murder of Charlotte Thorn.
[knocking at door]
[door opens]
The FBI just got this demand video,
routed through proxy servers,
so we don't know who sent it.
[tablet beeps]
[voice breaking]
I'm Charlotte Thorn's aide.
My name is Peyton Lane.
| have been instructed
by my captors
that the American government
Is to extradite Darius Cray
to Malaysia.
[crying] If he is not extradited
by 4:00 P.M. today,
| will be killed.
Please, do as they say!
Looks like we've got you
on kidnapping now, too.
-Excuse me?
-We just saw your ransom video.
-What are you talking about?
-[Hannah] Peyton Lane -
the person you're using
to leverage your husband's release.
-You know it's not gonna happen, right?
-What's going on, Oliver?
[Oliver] I'll tell you, Catherine.
We've come here voluntarily,
in the process of which,
our friends have seen fit
to accuse you of kidnapping,
extortion, and murder.
- Don't know what to say.
- I do. Thank you
for helping us
fill out the statement of facts.
-I need you right now.
-[Seth] I have a presser.
-Then you haven't seen it?
-Seen what?
You want to get ambushed in there,
or you want to come with me?
Presser's canceled.
[Ambassador Darzi]
The U.S.S. Verona,
which has been crippled
by an act of God,
was in fact sent by America
to spy on our peace-loving nation.
As an instrument of such treachery,
it is now the property
of the Kunami people.
-I guess we know what Kunami wants.
-Yes.
Our ship.
Admiral, I need you to tell me.
Was the Verona engaged in espionage?
In addition to its advanced weaponry,
the Verona has a state-of-the-art
surveillance system, sir.
What were we monitoring?
Kunami's compliance
with the sanctions.
Admiral, is there anything on the Verona
that would confirm
the emirate's allegations?
Unfortunately, sir, there is.
The ship's Voyage Data Recorder
tracks its movements to the second.
Now, if the emirate coordinates
the Verona's geo-locations
with the weather,
they can prove we were in their waters
before the monsoon hit.
And our plausible deniability
goes out the window.
Who on board the ship would have known
about the surveillance activities?
The captain, the X-O,
the operations officer.
But not a junior lieutenant?
Oh, no, sir.
The Saudi Ambassador says
Kunami's willing to allow
the rescue of the Verona crew
in exchange with the lifting of
the prohibition on its uranium program.
[sighs]
Well, now we know
what they're willing to trade for.
Our ship for a potential weapons program.
Not acceptable.
[Griffin] The Voyage Data Recorder?
[Tom] Yes, Captain.
Can I ask why it's so important, sir?
I'm afraid not,
but we need you to destroy it.
That's gonna be difficult, sir.
The VDR is located in the Combat
Information Center, which is underwater.
Come again, Captain?
The hull was more compromised
than we thought.
We sprung a leak on the starboard side.
The bilge pumps are working fine,
but I had to seal off a couple
of compartments to reduce the stress.
Good work.
Is there any way to access the CIC?
Not without a diver, sir.
Is that something
you would feel comfortable
-asking one of your men to do?
-No, sir. Too dangerous.
I'll do it myself.
Right answer, but we can't risk it.
-Mr. President--
-Stand pat, Captain.
That's an order.
Yes, sir.
Verona out.
Admiral, honestly,
how far out is the Fifth Fleet?
[Chernow] Three hours.
The choppy waters
are slowing the fleet down.
We can have a strike package
there in minutes.
[Emily] Sir, there's an optics difference
between using force to rescue a ship
on a peaceable mission
and one that was spying.
Right now, I don't care about the optics.
| care about the crew.
Well, sir, I have to advise you
if we start launching missiles at their
ships, the Verona's a sitting duck.
And the clock is ticking.
We don't want force
to be our primary option.
We need to keep moving
on the diplomatic front.
[sighs] You're right.
| want both of you to reach out
to the Foreign Relations Committee.
See how much room
we've got to maneuver.
-Yes, sir.
Get me Senators Cowling
and Damone here yesterday.
-Okay, but...
-And I want an update from Secretary Moss
-on the Thorn investigation.
-Emily...
Can I get some lunch?
| didn't eat because...
Oh, my God, my dad!
That's what I wanted to tell you.
He's wandering the West Wing.
| was giving him a tour,
and I got waylaid.
Just stash him in my office,
and I'll get back as soon as I can.
Okay.
| know I wasn't
supposed to bring him here,
-but he really wanted to see...
-Emily, he's lovely.
-Yeah?
-Yes.
He fixed Elinor's chair and made
egg creams for half the floor.
Go be you.
-He won't wreck the place.
-Thank you.
[Moss] Let me get this straight.
Not only have we not arrested
those responsible for Thorn's murder,
but now you're telling me
that her aide has been kidnapped.
We have Forensics examining
the video for clues, sir.
Well, I can tell you what
they're going to find. Nothing.
Because these people are
two steps ahead of us.
One person, sir.
We believe Catherine Cray
is responsible for everything:
the arms smuggling, the murder
of Charlotte Thorn, the kidnapping.
And if we don't extradite
Cray's husband to Malaysia,
Peyton Lane is dead.
-Malaysia's out of the question.
-They have jurisdiction, sir.
The weapons on board Darius Cray's ship
were earmarked for Malaysia.
Yes, but there's a reason why Catherine
wants her husband tried there.
The Crays have big holdings
in East Asia.
Meaning Darius is looking
at a slap on the wrist.
House arrest, one year tops,
if I had to guess,
instead of the 50 he'd get stateside
for arms trafficking.
No, I'm afraid that extradition is
out of the question for this President.
So we need to find Peyton Lane.
Before the press gets wind of the
kidnapping, and before Cray kills her.
-Yes, sir.
-[phone ringing]
Madame Prime Minister.
Ma'am, I'm afraid
| have some bad news.
[Eva] I thought this was behind us,
Ms. Daynes. The subpoena was quashed.
| realize it's an intrusion, ma'am.
I'm not sure you do.
| acknowledge I did wrong.
30 years ago, I gave bid specs
to a contractor
to save my husband's life. Mea culpa.
Ma'am, I--
This notion that I have to keep
addressing it and re-addressing it
like it's this original sin...
That declaration will put
all of that to bed.
How?
It attests you've had no contact
with contractor Eric Little
in the last three decades.
The FBI has no proof to the contrary,
only a wild conspiracy theory.
My husband was a lawyer,
a damn good one.
| know how this works.
-Ma'am?
- Isign this,
and the wolves are on me.
| get deposed, cross-examined,
every word gets parsed.
And I will be here to defend you.
If you want to defend me,
don't make me sign this.
| wish I didn't have to.
But I promise you, this document...
This is our best chance at ending
this investigation before it gets worse.
Can't believe you did
the Inca Trail in three days.
It's not as impressive as it sounds.
| had great guides.
Uh, Seth, the President
needs those talking points.
Right.
-Uh, good to talk to you, Dan.
-And you.
He's a nice guy.
-Smart, too.
-Yes, he, um--
Senators are here, Roosevelt Room.
-Right. Uh...
-Go. Save the world.
| can keep myself busy.
[Emily] Thank you.
-[Damone] You can't be serious.
-[Aaron] We're not talking about
the elimination of sanctions, Senator.
We're talking about loosening them.
Our proposal allows only
for a civilian-enrichment program.
And a strict monitoring regime
would be in place.
A regime whose success will depend
on Hassan's agreement
to abide by the very norms
he's shown nothing but contempt for.
But you're asking us to believe
he's turned over a new leaf.
[Tom] No, Senator. We're asking you
to help us bring the Verona home,;
300 of our sailors,
many of them wounded,
none of whom deserve
to be abandoned.
We agree. But what price
are we willing to pay for their return?
Kunami is a can that can be kicked
down the road.
The Verona's a can that could sink.
We'll need to take this before
the whole Foreign Relations Committee.
-We don't have that kind of time.
-We understand.
-We'll move fast.
-Please do. Thank you.
So, "Take it before the whole committee."
"Move fast."
That's congressional code
for "duck and cover."
Which means we're not gonna be able
to negotiate the crew to safety.
Sir, they need you in Command Ops.
-The Verona's sinking.
-Let's go.
[Griffin] The, uh, primary bilge pumps
have failed, sir.
The auxiliary pumps are failing.
We're taking on water
faster than we can get rid of it.
How much time
do you think you have?
Five, six hours till she submerges.
Sir, I want you to know,
the crew is not afraid.
Non sibi sed patriae.
"Not for self, but for country."
-The Navy motto.
-Yes, sir.
It's a privilege to serve.
A privilege every sailor on board
would gladly die for.
That privilege will not require
that sacrifice, Captain.
Not today.
Yes, sir.
Verona out.
[Aaron] Mr. President, Senator Cowling
just got back to me.
Congress won't allow
loosening the sanctions.
She's urging the Administration
to find a diplomatic solution.
It doesn't help us now, but she's right.
We need to find another way.
Sir, if I were advising the emir,
I'd say he's playing it perfectly:
castigating America for violating
his country's sovereignty.
[Emily] Knowing that we can't use force
without looking like
we've wildly over-reacted
to a problem they think we've created.
We didn't create a monsoon out at sea.
He's got wiggle room, sir. We don't.
This crisis is tailor-made
to enhance his prestige.
Admiral, do we have enough data
to re-create the Verona's collision?
Yes, sir. We'll get right on it.
Peyton Lane's phone pinged at 10:26 A.M.
outside her hotel in Dupont Circle
before going offline.
The demand video
was uploaded at 1112,.
Okay, build in time for her captors
to get her to the safe house
-and set up the video shoot.
-[keyboard clacking]
[computer beeping]
Four-mile radius.
[knock at door, door opens]
This came in for you, Hannah.
It was dropped off by messenger.
-Security's already cleared it.
-Thanks, Mike.
[cellphone beeping]
[phone ringing]
[man] Two hours left, Agent Wells.
Or the next time you see Ms. Lane,
you'll have to identify her by her teeth.
We're working on extradition,
but we can't okay that
unless we have proof of life.
-You have to--
-[dial tone]
[Lyor] So, she doesn't get it from you.
[Daniel] No, I can't say
I've ever had kombucha.
Try storing vinegar
in a locker for a decade.
-Then add bleach and urine.
-Thank you, Lyor.
-You can go earn your taxpayer money now.
-[chuckling]
-That's an interesting fella.
-Yeah.
I'm sorry I keep abandoning you.
Don't be. I love meeting your friends.
They think the world of you.
-Hey, Mr. Rhodes.
-Heya, Matt.
Who's Matt?
Oh, he works in
the word-processing pool.
| think he's got a little
something going with Dana.
-Who's Dana?
-She works with Hank in personnel.
-Oh.
-[cellphone buzzing]
I'm so sorry.
-I will come find you.
-I'll be the guy beaming with pride.
[beeping]
You're watching a re-creation
of the collision, sir.
Based on what?
Enhanced satellite imagery
and data from the ship's AIS.
The Verona was traveling 160 degrees
southeast at roughly 15 knots.
The barge was heading northeast
at 12 knots,
four points off the port quarter.
If everyone held course,
it would've been a near miss.
The barge suddenly veered
to four points off the starboard bow
and increased its speed to 18 knots.
That proves that the barge
ran into our ship on purpose.
Well, given the barge's sudden change
in speed and direction,
that would be my conclusion,
Mr. President.
Ambassador Salini's on his way
to discuss sanctions.
We'll be discussing something else.
This proves nothing.
It proves that your garbage barge
deliberately rammed our ship.
No. It was dark.
Bad weather.
Maybe the barge's radar malfunctioned,
like the Verona's.
Maybe it was tacking to avoid a wave.
Or maybe the captain was acting
at the behest of your government.
Here is the one thing
that we know for sure.
Your ship was in our waters,
violating our sovereignty.
Sir, we've been over this.
Yes, we have.
And I was summoned
to discuss sanctions.
The sanctions remain.
You have turned my country
into a pariah.
The people don't have enough for food.
Because the emir insists on spending
your nation's capital on weapons.
How we dispense our treasury
is our choice.
So is how we deal
with American aggression.
If you violate our sovereignty again,
we will consider it a declaration of war.
Kunami can't afford
to go to war with us, sir.
Which is why they'll drag in
other countries.
We fire on them, they fire
on our client states: Israel, Turkey.
Pulling in Syria and Iran,
forcing us to negotiate.
And the Verona and its crew
will be lost.
-[door opens]
-No.
[Chernow] Mr. President,
the Fifth Fleet is in place
and awaiting instructions, sir.
Thank you, Admiral.
Have them deploy a rescue vessel.
Fly a flag at half-mast.
Aaron, see if you can catch
the ambassador.
Tell him they can have our ship.
We're bringing our people home.
Mr. President, the emirate
will get our technology,
and the VDR will confirm we were spying.
Respectfully, sir,
it will be a national humiliation.
Respectfully, Admiral,
our personnel is more important.
Well, I'd agree, sir, if we could predict
how Kunami will respond.
There's no way to know what
the emir will do if you call his bluff.
Well, we're gonna find out soon enough
because we're gonna run the blockade.
Admiral...
...if they engage,
sink every ship they've got.
[Davis] Mr. President, this is
Commander Davis of the Wyckoff.
| can confirm that
the crew of the Verona
is now safely aboard our vessel.
And we've recovered all our dead?
Yes, sir. Casualties all accounted for.
I'm not taking my eye off
of that satellite feed
until the Wyckoff crosses
the Kunami line.
You're not going to sign the declaration?
| don't feel comfortable with it.
Please tell me what your issue is,
and I'll... I'll try to address it.
Well, I just feel like
| should have my own lawyer look at it.
Ms. Booker, I work for the White House.
Your interests are aligned
with your family's.
Aren't they?
| told my daughter that I hadn't seen
Eric Little since 1987.
And that's technically not true.
| saw him briefly
about six months ago.
Okay?
A mutual friend died
and left Eric a case of wine.
And he showed up
at my door one day,
out of the blue,
to pass along the news
and give me a bottle of Cab.
-What else did you two talk about?
-Nothing.
He was there two minutes.
That's why it...
slipped my mind.
Your daughter stood before a judge
and asserted
you'd had no contact with Eric Little
in 30 years.
| hadn't.
Not really.
You did, ma'am.
And your daughter is the First Lady.
And she made what John Foerstel
will characterize
as an affirmative misrepresentation.
Add into that her involvement
in defending you,
it begins to look a lot like obstruction.
[indistinct conversations]
Mr. President, this is Commander Davis.
| can confirm the Kunami fleet
is now astern of the Wyckoff.
[applause]
Congratulations, Mr. President.
Thank you. Thank you.
[applause continues]
| need a list of the dead,
numbers for their next of kin.
I've got some phone calls to make.
Yes, sir.
[tearfully] This is Peyton Lane.
It's 2:53 P.M.,
and I am alive and well
as of this recording,
but I won't be unless
Darius Cray is extradited.
Please tell my parents,
Barb and Ed, that I love them.
And my siblings,
Laura Leigh and Sam,
that I love them too--
[static]
She went off book.
She's an only child.
And her parents' names
are Michelle and Phillip.
She would've had, uh,
Foreign Service training, right,
-before she went abroad?
-Yes.
It's mandatory for any assignment.
She's signaling us.
Chuck, can you run
a voice-to-text program?
Isolate the names.
Could be an anagram, or
an alphanumeric code for coordinates.
It would have to be simpler.
She... she only had minutes
to come up with this.
Chuck, isolate the first letter
of each of those names.
Bells.
Church bells?
Too many churches in D.C.
Go with a place. Bells Road?
There's a Bells Drive. It's southeast.
They'd need to take her
to an isolated place.
Check anything under
"construction” or "abandoned."
| got an abandoned apartment building
on Bells and 13th.
That would be the perfect place to...
[door opens, closes]
You're welcome.
[man 1 softly]
Let's go. Entry team, rally.
[cellphone ringing]
Yeah?
Time's up.
[door crashes]
[whispering loudly]
Go, go, go! Breach!
What do you want me to do?
Yeah. All right.
[man 1 whispering]
Hallway clear for entry points.
[phone beeps]
[gun cocks]
-[crash]
-[man] Go! Breach!
-Gun!
-[gunshots]
-What have we got?
-Two Tangos down!
[man 2] All right, we're moving up!
[Daniel] There really used to be
a pool in the White House?
Yep. President Nixon
covered it in 1970,
turned it into a briefing room.
-[laughs] His first mistake.
-Oh, but not his last.
| can't believe it.
My daughter sits at the right hand
of the President.
| always knew you were destined
for greatness.
Oh, I don't know about that.
| got lucky. Not lucky, but...
I'm lucky, too...
that we reconnected.
Hey, you think there's a chance
| might meet your boss?
Today might be tough, but maybe
we can swing by for a second.
-Think I could get a picture?
-Sure.
Good, 'cause I want
to show you something.
It's called the BottleMaven.
Just press a button,
out pops the cork.
A corkscrew.
[laughs] The last word in corkscrews.
And it would mean the world
to my investor group
if I could get a picture
of the President with it.
The President
doesn't endorse products.
No problem.
Uh, he could hold the bottle.
I'll hold the BottleMaven.
Em, you're needed
in Command Ops.
Thank you.
Go get 'em, tiger!
[Tom] Admiral,
do you want to explain to me
how the Wyckoff
forgot Captain Griffin?
[Chernow] They didn't forget him, sir.
He refused to abandon ship.
Mr. President, I'm on with the ambassador.
Kunami will agree to allow
the Wyckoff to head back,
but we need to do it now.
Admiral, order the Wyckoff
to turn around. Get me Captain Griffin.
[Griffin] Mr. President.
[Tom] Captain, you've caused
quite an uproar.
| know, sir. I'm sorry.
Kunami has agreed to allow
the Wyckoff to circle back,
-ferry you out.
-I'm not going, sir.
Captain, this isn't the time to argue.
I'm no sailor, but even I can see
that the ship is sinking faster
than we had anticipated.
| know, sir. I opened the hatches
and the torpedo tubes.
Why the hell would you do that?
I figured out why you want the VDR, sir.
If Kunami gets their hands on it,
they'll figure it out as well.
-Captain, that's not your concern.
-Yes, sir, it is.
| swore an oath to protect
my country and my crew.
My crew is safe.
My country is not.
You flooded the boat.
You've done your duty.
No, sir. Kunami will salvage the vessel.
They'll get the VDR.
| initiated the emergency
scuttle sequence,
but I need to be here to make sure
it works. The detonators are on a timer.
Everyone out.
Give me the room now, please.
[alarm blaring on the Verona ]
[chuckles]
Son, where are you from?
Billings, Montana, sir.
Billings, Montana.
Beautiful country, isn't it?
Yes, sir. It is.
Your family there?
Yes, sir.
Mom, two sisters.
You got a girl?
Sir?
A girlfriend, Captain.
Yes, sir.
Son, your whole life is in front of you,
things you can't even imagine,
beautiful, wonderful things,
things to live for.
| need you to trust me.
We will handle this.
Your story's not supposed to end here.
You need to come home.
Let me bring you home.
I'm sorry, sir.
It's been an honor.
Verona out.
[Hannah] The last call made by one
of the captors was to a burner phone.
We tracked the location of that
burner phone to Ms. Cray's hotel.
[Damian] And when we find that phone,
we're not just gonna charge
Mrs. Cray with kidnapping.
We're gonna charge her with the
premeditated murder of Charlotte Thorn.
And everything she's done
since Thorn's murder -
every lie she's told,
every move she's made -
is going to be evidence.
| had nothing to do
with Thorn's murder.
We don't believe you.
[Oliver] Agent Wells,
| think it behooves you
to listen to my client.
Make it quick.
The arms business was mine.
And it needed Charlotte Thorn.
That makes no sense.
She was obsessed with my husband.
The attention Darius drew
because of her
meant that I could operate
without scrutiny.
My mistake was involving him at all.
He got sloppy.
| didn't kill Charlotte Thorn.
| needed her.
[knocking at door]
Em?
Good night.
All right, I got you kabobs,
shawarma, falafel,
something with
phyllo dough in it,
hot sauce, cold sauce,
lukewarm sauce.
He didn't want me.
He wanted the White House.
| know.
You know, at least
if he'd asked for a kidney,
| could've convinced myself
that I was family,
his daughter,
someone he had to turn to.
But after 23 years,
you know what I meant to him?
[voice breaking]
A corkscrew.
Listen, 'cause
I'm only gonna say this once
and you need to take it on board,
internalize it, and remember it.
You're the greatest thing
since sliced bread.
And if this guy doesn't see that,
then he doesn't like bread.
And when I say bread, it's a metaphor,
because you're not remotely bread-like,
except insofar as bread is great.
Fundamentally great, like water.
Or air.
Or you.
Yeah.
[Hannah] Well,
Catherine Cray was right.
Her business started booming
after Charlotte Thorn
started pointing fingers
at her husband.
-So Cray didn't Kill her.
-Nope.
Which means we're back at square one.
Well...
...sometimes square one's
not a bad place to be.
[Chuck] You guys have to see this.
When it turned out Darius Cray
didn't kill Charlotte Thorn,
| started looking through
everything again.
| dug up security cams from the bank
behind Thorn's hotel.
-Anything suspicious?
-Outside the hotel, no.
But one of the cameras
just about sees into the hallway
-outside Thorn's room on the first floor.
-[keyboard clacking]
[computer beeps]
That's five hours
before Thorn was killed.
Let's run her visitor
through facial recognition.
[sighs]
It's a profile shot
through a glazed window,
but I can try.
[computer beeping]
[beeps]
We've got a match.
Secretary Moss?
[Mike] Sir, can I ask the name of the man
who went down on the Verona?
Why do you want to know, Mike?
'Cause he was a hero,
and I want to tell my kids about him.
J Broken windows J
You can tell them
he was the captain.
J And empty hallways
Captain Will Griffin.
-&' A pale dead moon [
-Goodnight, sir.
Goodnight.
♪ In the sky streaked with gray &
J Human kindness... &
[Kendra] Mike, did I miss the President?
Uh, he just left for the Residence.
What do you got?
Bad news.
J It's going J
Can it wait till tomorrow?
-4 To rain... &
-Yes.
Good.
The man's done enough for one day.
J And I think it's going J
J To rain today